Troubleshooting issues related to coreDNS

1. If you find CoreDNS pods in pending state first check network plugin is installed.

2. coredns pods have CrashLoopBackOff or Error state

If you have nodes that are running SELinux with an older version of Docker you might experience a scenario where the coredns pods are not starting. 
To solve that you can try one of the following options:

a)Upgrade to a newer version of Docker.

b)Disable SELinux.

c)Modify the coredns deployment to set allowPrivilegeEscalation to true:



d)Another cause for CoreDNS to have CrashLoopBackOff is when a CoreDNS Pod deployed in Kubernetes detects a loop.



There are many ways to work around this issue, some are listed here:

-	Add the following to your kubelet config yaml: resolvConf: <path-to-your-real-resolv-conf-file> This flag tells kubelet to pass an alternate resolv.conf to Pods. For systems using systemd-resolved, /run/systemd/resolve/resolv.conf is typically the location of the "real" resolv.conf, although this can be different depending on your distribution.

-	Disable the local DNS cache on host nodes, and restore /etc/resolv.conf to the original.

-	A quick fix is to edit your Corefile, replacing forward . /etc/resolv.conf with the IP address of your upstream DNS, for example forward . 8.8.8.8. But this only fixes the issue for CoreDNS, kubelet will continue to forward the invalid resolv.conf to all default dnsPolicy Pods, leaving them unable to resolve DNS.




3. If CoreDNS pods and the kube-dns service is working fine, check the kube-dns service has valid endpoints.

              kubectl -n kube-system get ep kube-dns

If there are no endpoints for the service, inspect the service and make sure it uses the correct selectors and ports.



KUBE-PROXY

kube-proxy is a network proxy that runs on each node in the cluster. kube-proxy maintains network rules on nodes. These network rules allow network communication to the Pods from network sessions inside or outside of the cluster.

In a cluster configured with kubeadm, you can find kube-proxy as a daemonset.

kubeproxy is responsible for watching services and endpoint associated with each service. When the client is going to connect to the service using the virtual IP the kubeproxy is responsible for sending traffic to actual pods.


Troubleshooting issues related to kube-proxy
1. Check kube-proxy pod in the kube-system namespace is running.

2. Check kube-proxy logs.

3. Check configmap is correctly defined and the config file for running kube-proxy binary is correct.

4. kube-config is defined in the config map.

5. check kube-proxy is running inside the container